# Feature Selection and Classification Reveal Key lncRNAs for Multiple Cancers 
Long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) plays key roles in tumorigenesis. Misexpression of lncRNA can lead to changes in expression profiles of various target genes, which are involved in cancer initiation and progression. So, identifying key lncRNAs for a cancer would help develop the cancer therapy. Usually, to identify key lncRNAs for a cancer, expression profiles of lncRNAs for normal and cancer samples are required. But, this kind of data are not available for all cancers. In the present study, a computational framework is developed to identify cancer specific key lncRNAs using the lncRNA expression of cancer patients only. The framework consists of two state-of-the-art feature selection techniques - Recursive Feature Elimination (RFE) and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO); and five machine learning models - Naive Bayes, K-Nearest Neighbor, Random Forest, Support Vector Machine, and Deep Neural Network. For experiment, expression values of lncRNAs for 8 cancers - BLCA, CESC, COAD, HNSC, KIRP, LGG, LIHC, and LUAD - from TCGA are used. The combined dataset consists of 3,656 patients with expression values of 12,309 lncRNAs. Important features or key lncRNAs are identified by using feature selection algorithms RFE and LASSO. Capability of these key lncRNAs in classifying 8 different cancers is checked by the performance of five classification models. This study identified 37 key lncRNAs that can classify 8 different cancer types with an accuracy ranging from 94% to 97%. Finally, survival analysis supports that the discovered key lncRNAs are capable of differentiating between high-risk and low-risk patients. 

* Language/Tools: Python, Scikit-learn
* Published Article: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8983413 
